ZymoBIOMICSŌäó 96 MagBead DNA Kit
DNA for microbiome or metagenome analyses



Highlights
  ŌĆó Validated Unbiased for Microbiome Measurements: Unbiased
    cellular lysis validated using the ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Microbial
    Community Standard.
  ŌĆó Inhibitor-Free DNA from Any Sample: Isolate ultra-pure DNA ready
    for any downstream application.
  ŌĆó Certified Low Bioburden: Boost your detection limit for low
    abundance microbes.
  ŌĆó Simple Workflow: Simply bead-beat sample, purify via spin-plate,
    and filter to remove PCR inhibitors. No precipitation or lengthy
    incubations!



Catalog Numbers:
D4302, D4306, D4308




Scan with your smart-phone camera to
view the online protocol/video.
                           Table of Contents

         Product Contents ........................................... 01
         Specifications................................................. 02
         Product Description ....................................... 03
         Protocol .......................................................... 07
         Appendices .................................................... 10
           Sample Collection ............................................. 10
           Application Notes. ............................................. 12
             Standardize Sample Preparation with
             ZymoBIOMICS Microbial Standards ...................... 18
             Optimized Lysis Protocols for Bead-Beating ............ 21
             Heat Sealing Lysis Racks ............................................ 22
         Troubleshooting............................................. 23
         Ordering Information ..................................... 25
         Complete Your Workflow............................... 27
         Notes ............................................................... 28
         Guarantee ....................................................... 29




INSTRUCTION MANUAL Ver.1.4.1                                                Revised on: 5/11/2023
Product Contents

                                                       D4302            D4306             D4308
 ZymoBIOMICSŌäó 96 MagBead DNA
                                                  (2 x 96 Preps.)    (2 x 96 Preps.)   (2 x 96 Preps.)

 ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Lysis Solution                           150 ml               -             150 ml

 DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó                                      50 ml x 3             -            50 ml x 3

 ZymoBIOMICSŌäó MagBinding Buffer                        250 ml           250 ml            250 ml

 ZymoBIOMICSŌäó MagWash 1                               100 ml x 2      100 ml x 2        100 ml x 2

 ZymoBIOMICSŌäó MagWash 2                               200 ml x 3      200 ml x 3        200 ml x 3

 ZymoBIOMICSŌäó DNase/RNase Free
                                                        50 ml            50 ml             50 ml
 Water

 ZymoBIOMICSŌäó MagBinding Beads                          12 ml            12 ml             12 ml

 ZR BashingBeadŌäó Lysis Tubes
                                                          -                 -               200
 (0.1 & 0.5 mm)

 ZymoBIOMICSŌäó BashingBeadŌäó
                                                          2                 -                  -
 Lysis Rack (0.1 & 0.5 mm)

 Sealing Foils for ZymoBIOMICSŌäó
                                                          4                 -                  -
 BashingBeadŌäó Lysis Rack

 Instruction Manual                                       1                1                   1




Storage Temperature - Store all kit components (i.e., buffers, columns) at room temperature.


                                                  1
Specifications
 ŌĆó     Sample Sources ŌĆō Bacterial (including endospores)1, fungal,
       protozoan, algal, viral, mitochondrial, and host DNA is efficiently
       isolated from Ōēż 100 mg of mammalian feces, Ōēż 100 mg soil, and 5 ŌĆō
       20 mg (wet weight) of bacterial/fungal cells2, biofilms, and water3.

 ŌĆó     Bead Beating System ŌĆō The innovative ZymoBIOMICSŌäó lysis
       system enables complete homogenization/disruption of the microbial
       cells walls and accurate microbial DNA analysis, free of bias. To
       ensure unbiased lysis, calibration of each bead-beating device is
       recommended by using the ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Microbial Community
       Standard (see Appendix C).

 ŌĆó     DNA Purity ŌĆō High quality, inhibitor-free DNA is eluted with
       ZymoBIOMICSŌäó DNase/RNase Free Water and is suitable for all
       downstream applications including PCR and Next-Generation
       Sequencing.

 ŌĆó     DNA Integrity ŌĆō On average, post bead beating, genomic DNA is
       between 15-20 kb depending on the initial quality of the sample,
       making it amenable to Next-Generation Sequencing platforms
       requiring high molecular weight DNA. For optimal DNA integrity,
       collect samples in DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó4.

 ŌĆó     DNA Recovery ŌĆō Up to 5 ┬Ąg total DNA can be eluted into 20 ┬Ąl.

 ŌĆó     Bioburden ŌĆō A single preparation is guaranteed to contain less than
       3 bacterial genomic copies per ┬Ąl of eluate as determined by
       quantitative amplification of the 16S rRNA gene when eluted using
       100 ┬Ąl water.

 ŌĆó     Materials Required, But Not Supplied ŌĆō Centrifuge w/ microplate
       carriers and 96-well plate/block disruptor or pulverizer.




1 See endospore lysis efficiency data in Appendix B.
2 This equates to approximately 2 x 108 bacterial cells and 2 x 107 yeast cells.
3 For water samples, filter using desired filter (not provided). Cut the filter into small pieces and place into ZR
  BashingBeadŌäó Lysis Tube (0.1 & 0.5 mm). Alternatively, up to 250 ┬Ąl water can be processed directly.
4 DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó provides an accurate molecular signature of the sample at the time of collection by
  preserving nucleic acids at ambient temperature and inactivating organisms including infectious agents (see
  Appendix A).



                                                          2
Product Description
The ZymoBIOMICSŌäó 96 MagBead DNA Kit is designed for purifying
DNA from a wide array of sample inputs (e.g. feces, soil, water, biofilms,
etc.), that is immediately ready for microbiome or metagenome analyses.

The ZymoBIOMICSŌäó innovative lysis system eliminates bias associated
with unequal lysis efficiencies1 of different organisms (e.g. Gram-
negative/positive bacteria including endospores 2, fungi, protozoans,
algae, etc.) making it ideal for microbial community profiling. Unbiased
mechanical lysis of tough microbes is achieved by bead beating with the
innovative ultra-high density BashingBeadsŌäó and validated using the
ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Microbial Community Standard3, as shown in Figure 3.

In addition, the ZymoBIOMICSŌäó 96 MagBead DNA Kit is equipped with
Zymo ResearchŌĆÖs proprietary OneStepŌäó PCR Inhibitor Removal
technology, enabling PCR from the most PCR prohibitive environmental
samples rich in humic and fulvic acids, tannins, melanin, and other
polyphenolic compounds. Coupling state-of-the-art lysis technology with
Zymo-SpinŌäó Technology results in superior yields of ultra-pure DNA ideal
for all downstream applications including PCR, arrays, 16S rRNA gene
sequencing, and shotgun sequencing4.



                               Innovation. Pure & Simple.




1
  Chemical, enzymatic, and inferior lysis matrices (beads) lead to unrealistic representation of organisms in
  downstream metagenomic analyses that is not reflective of actual abundance.
2
  See endospore lysis efficiency data in Appendix B.
3
  For more information on the ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Microbial Community Standard (D6300) & ZymoBIOMICSŌäó
  Microbial Community DNA Standard (D6305), see Appendix C.
4
  DNA is predominately 15-20 kb and amenable to Next-Generation Sequencing techniques requiring high
  molecular weight DNA.


                                                     3
               Ultra-pure DNA from Inhibitor Rich Samples




Figure 1. The ZymoBIOMICSŌäó 96 MagBead DNA Kit provides inhibitor-free DNA even when
challenged with extremely inhibitor rich samples. Real-time PCR was used to evaluate eluates recovered
using the ZymoBIOMICSŌäó 96 MagBead DNA Kit, or Supplier A. Reaction volumes consisted of either
10% or 35% of the eluate from each kit to detect the presence of PCR inhibitors. Each reaction contained
10 ng of Brettanomyces DNA. Delayed amplification indicates PCR inhibition from inefficient inhibitor
removal. N=8.




                                          Superior Yields
                   ZymoBIOMICSŌäó                                         Supplier A




  Figure 2. The ZymoBIOMICSŌäó 96 Magbead DNA Kit provides superior yields when compared to
  Suppliers M, P, and Q. 80 mg of feces was processed using each kit according to the manufacturesŌĆÖ
  recommended protocol. DNA was eluted using 100 ┬Ąl ZymoBIOMICSŌäó DNase/RNase Free Water.
  6 ┬Ąl of each sample was analyzed in a 1.0% (w/v) agarose/ethidium bromide gel. Samples were
  processed in triplicate. L is a 1Kb ladder.




Zymo Research offers a full suite of ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Services for reliable, accurate microbial and metagenomic
analyses. Services include: Microbial Composition Profiling, Novel Microbe Identification, and Customizable
Bioinformatics. For details visit us at: http://www.zymoresearch.com/services/metagenomics
Or contact us at: services@zymoresearch.com



                                                    4
                       Reliability and Consistency

                A) Consistent Yields Across Multiple Samples




             B) No Cross Contamination Between Sample Wells




Figure 3
A). The ZymoBIOMICSŌäó 96 MagBead DNA Kit provides consistent yields when DNA is purified from
20 mg of human fecal sample using an automated liquid handling system. Consistent and replicable
yields were observed when DNA isolation was performed on an automated liquid handler. Samples were
evaluated using spectrophotometric analysis in technical duplicates.
B). Coupling the ZymoBIOMICSŌäó 96 MagBead DNA Kit with a liquid handler, isolated DNA is free
from cross contamination when purified across a standard 96-well plate. Plate was setup with
alternating rows of ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Microbial Community Standards1, HeLa cells, and S. Cerevisiae
cells, and DNA was purified simultaneously from these samples on a liquid handling platform. Samples
were evaluated using quantitative PCR with primer sets targeted at the bacterial 16S gene, the human
LINE gene, and the fungal ITS gene. PCR was performed in technical duplicates.



                                              5
   A) Bias Free Microbial DNA Extraction Using ZymoBIOMICSŌäó DNA Kit
    Validated with the ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Microbial Community Standard




   B) Bias Free Microbial DNA Extraction Using ZymoBIOMICSŌäó DNA Kit
                            From Human Stool




Figure 4.
A) The ZymoBIOMICSŌäó DNA Kit provides unbiased representation of the organisms extracted
from the ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Microbial Community Standard. DNA was extracted from ZymoBIOMICSŌäó
Microbial Community Standard using four different DNA extraction methods (ZymoBIOMICSŌäó DNA Kit,
Human Microbiome Project Protocol, Supplier Q1, and Supplier Q2) and analyzed using 16S rRNA gene
sequencing. 16S rRNA genes were amplified with primers targeting v3-4 region and the amplicons were
sequenced on Illumina┬« MiSeqŌäó (2 x 250 bp). Overlapping paired-end reads were assembled into
complete amplicon sequences. The composition profile was determined based on sequence counts after
mapping amplicon sequences to the known 16S rRNA genes of the eight different bacterial species.
B) The ZymoBIOMICSŌäó DNA Kit reliably isolates DNA from even the toughest to lyse Gram
positive organisms, enabling unbiased analyses of microbial community compositions. There is a
significant increase in yield and Gram-positive bacterial abundance when DNA was isolated using the
ZymoBIOMICSŌäó DNA Kit. Correlated with the results in Figure 3A, it can be concluded that unbiased
DNA isolation was achieved. DNA was extracted from 200 ┬Ąl of human feces suspended in PBS (10 %
m/v) using four different DNA extraction methods (ZymoBIOMICSŌäó DNA Kit, Human Microbiome Project
Protocol, Supplier Q1, and Supplier Q2) and analyzed using 16S rRNA gene sequencing. 16S rRNA genes
were amplified with primers targeting v3-4 region and the amplicons were sequenced on Illumina┬«
MiSeqŌäó (2 x 250 bp). Overlapping paired-end reads were assembled into complete amplicon sequences.
Amplicon sequences were profiled with Qiime using Greengenes 16S rRNA gene database (gg_13_8).

                                                6
Protocol
Sample Lysis
For all mixing steps: pipette mix or shake at max speed.
Note: Shaking speed will depend on sample volume and plate well
depth. Use of shaker plates will require user optimization.

1.      Add sample to the BashingBeadŌäó Lysis Module using the table
        below:
        a. If using ZymoBIOMICSŌäó BashingBeadŌäó Lysis Rack (0.1 & 0.5 mm,
           D6002-96-7), add 550 ┬Ąl ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Lysis Solution.
        b. If using ZR BashingBeadŌäó Lysis Tubes (0.1 & 0.5 mm), add 750 ┬Ąl
           ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Lysis Solution.

Note: DNA/RNA Shield has been provided to optionally replace ZymoBIOMICS
Lysis Solution to improve DNA integrity.

                 Sample Type                                            Maximum Input
                      Feces                                                   100 mg
                        Soil                                                  100 mg
        Liquid Samples1 and Swab
                                                                               250 ┬Ąl
                Collections2
                                                                    5-20 mg (wet weight)
        Cells (Suspended in PBS)
                                                      (2 x 108 bacterial and 2 x 107 yeast cells)
     Samples in DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó,3                                             Ōēż 800 ┬Ąl
Note: For samples stored and lysed in DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó Lysis Tubes, do not
add ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Lysis Solution and proceed to Step 2.

2. When using the ZymoBIOMICSŌäó BashingBeadŌäó Lysis Rack (0.1 &
   0.5 mm, S6002-96-7), it is recommended to seal the rack with the
   provided sealing foils. Seal the foils to the rack using a heat sealing
   device set at 180┬░C for 4 seconds. Refer to Appendix E for more
   detailed guidance.

Note: If sealing foils cannot be used, remove the lysis rack cover before bead
beating, and secure mounting clamp directly to the lysis rack base and strip caps.

1
  For water samples, filter using desired filter (not provided). Cut the filter into small pieces and place into ZR
  BashingBeadŌäó Lysis Tubes (0.1 & 0.5 mm).
2
  Swabs can also be cut or broken and placed directly in bead beating tube. For more information on processing
  swab samples, see Appendix B.
3
  See Appendix A for additional information on sample collection in DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó.


                                                        7
3. Secure in a bead beater fitted with the appropriate holder assembly
   for your bead beating module and process using optimized bead
   beating conditions (speed and time) for your device (Appendix D).4
        Optional Stopping Point: Following Step 3 is the best stopping point if breaking up the
        work is needed. Samples post lysis can be stored for several hours at room temperature
        or can be stored at ŌĆō 80 ┬░C for long term storage.


4. Centrifuge the BashingBeadŌäó Lysis Module:
           a. If using ZymoBIOMICSŌäó BashingBeadŌäó Lysis Rack (0.1 & 0.5 mm),
              centrifuge at Ōēź 4,000 x g for 5 minutes.
           b. If using ZR BashingBeadŌäó Lysis Tubes (0.1 & 0.5 mm), centrifuge at
              Ōēź 10,000 x g for 1 minute.

5. Transfer up to 200 ┬Ąl of the deep-well block (not provided). Add
        600 ┬Ąl ZymoBIOMICSŌäó MagBinding Buffer.

        Note: For samples with excessive amounts of solid particulate, centrifuge at
        4,000 x g for 5 minutes to reduce clogging.

6. Dispense 25 ┬Ąl of ZymoBIOMICSŌäó MagBinding Beads to each
   well. Mix well by pipette or shaker plate for 10 minutes.

        Note: ZymoBIOMICS MagBinding Beads settle quickly, ensure that beads
        are kept in suspension while dispensing.

7. Transfer the 96-well block to a magnetic stand until beads pellet,
   then aspirate and discard the supernatant. Remove the 96-Well
   Block from the magnetic stand.

8. Dispense 500 ┬Ąl of ZymoBIOMICSŌäó MagBinding Buffer and mix
   well by pipette or shaker plate for 1 minute.

9. Transfer the 96-well block to a magnetic stand until beads pellet,
   then aspirate and discard the supernatant. Remove the 96-Well
   Block from the magnetic stand.

10. Dispense 500 ┬Ąl of ZymoBIOMICSŌäó MagWash 1 and mix well by
    pipette or shaker plate for 1 minute.

11. Transfer the 96-well block to a magnetic stand until beads pellet,
    then aspirate and discard the supernatant. Remove the 96-Well
    Block from the magnetic stand.


4
    For optimal lysis efficiency and unbiased profiling all bead beater devices beyond those validated by Zymo
    Research should be calibrated using the ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Microbial Community Standard. See Appendix C.

                                                       8
12. Dispense 900 ┬Ąl ZymoBIOMICSŌäó MagWash 2 and mix well by
    pipette or shaker plate for 1 minute.

          Note: If high speed shaker plates are used, dispense 500 ┬Ąl
          ZymoBIOMICSŌäó MagWash 2.

13. Transfer the deep-well block to a magnetic stand until beads pellet,
    then aspirate and discard the supernatant. Remove the 96-Well Block
    from the magnetic stand.

14. Repeat the wash (Steps 12-13).

15. Transfer the 96-Well Block onto a heating element (55┬░C) until beads
    dry (approximately 10 minutes). If no heating element is available, air
    dry for approximately 20-30 minutes.

16. Dispense 50 ╬╝l of ZymoBIOMICSŌäó DNase/RNase Free Water to
    each well and re-suspend beads. Mix the beads well for 10 minutes
    and then transfer the plate onto the magnetic stand for 2-3 minutes
    until the beads pellet5.

17. Transfer the supernatant (containing the eluted DNA) to a clean
    elution plate or tube6.

        The eluted DNA can be used immediately for molecular based
        applications or stored Ōēż -20┬║C for future use.




5
    In some cases a brown-colored pellet may form at the bottom of the tube after centrifugation. Avoid this pellet
    when collecting the eluted DNA.
6
    If fungi or bacterial cultures were processed; the DNA is now suitable for all downstream applications.

                                                          9
Appendices
Appendix A

Sample Collection

For high quality reproducible microbiomics data, DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó is
recommended for sample collection to avoid bias or erroneous results due
to compositional changes from nucleic acid degradation or microbial
growth. DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó provides an unbiased molecular snapshot of
the sample at the time of collection by preserving nucleic acids at ambient
temperature and inactivating organisms including infectious agents.
Samples can be stored and transported easily and safely with DNA/RNA
ShieldŌäó and is ideal for applications such as PCR, 16S rRNA gene
sequencing, and shotgun metagenomic sequencing. DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó
can preserve nucleic acids in nearly any sample including feces, soil,
saliva, blood, and tissues.

DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó - Lysis Tube (Microbe) ŌĆō Simply add sample, seal,
and store at ambient temperature. The Lysis Tube is immediately ready
for bead beating, thereby streamlining the collection to extraction
transition. (Cat. No. R1103)

DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó ŌĆō Fecal Collection Tube ŌĆō The collection device is
specifically designed for easy collection and stabilization of feces. Includes
a scoop built for collecting 1 gram of feces (or any other sample such as
saliva or soil). (Cat. No. R1101)

DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó ŌĆō Swab Collection Tube ŌĆō Easy collection of
biological samples; swab has breakable tip to allow for easy sample
collection and removes the need to dispose of a potentially biohazardous
swab material. (Cat. No. R1106 & R1107).




                                     10
A) DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó Preserves Nucleic
Acids at Room Temperature
                                           Figure 5.
                                           A) Nucleic acids in stool are
                                           effectively stabilized in DNA/RNA
                                           ShieldŌäó at room temperature.
                                           Graph shows spike-in DNA and RNA
                                           controls from stool purified at the
                                           indicated time points and analyzed
                                           by (RT)qPCR. Controls: HSV-1 and
                                           HIV         (AcroMetrixŌäó,       Life
                                           Technologies).

                                           B) Microbial composition of stool
                                           is unchanged after one month at
                                           ambient       temperature       with
                                           DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó. Stool samples
                                           suspended in DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó
B) DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó Preserves Microbial     and stored at room temperature
                                           were compared to stool without
Composition at Room Temperature            preservative for one month. They
                                           were sampled at the indicated time
                                           points    and     processed     with
                                           ZymoBIOMICSŌäó DNA Kit. The
                                           extracted DNA was then subjected to
                                           microbial composition profiling via
                                           16S     rRNA       gene     targeted
                                           sequencing. Graphs show both
                                           phylum composition (left) and genus
                                           composition (right). Samples stored
                                           with DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó had a
                                           constant microbial composition while
                                           the samples stored without shifted
                                           dramatically.

                                           C) Viruses, bacteria and yeast are
                                           effectively      inactivated       by
                                           DNA/RNA        ShieldŌäó.     Samples
                                           containing the infectious agent
                                           (viruses, bacteria, yeast) were
                                           treated with DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó or
                                           mock (PBS) treated for 5 minutes.
                                           Titer (PFU) was subsequently
C) DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó Inactivates Pathogens   determined by plaque assay.
for  Safe   Transport     and    Storage   Validated by: Influenza A - D. Poole
                                           and Prof. A. Mehle, Department of
                                           Medical        Microbiology       and
                                           Immunology,        University       of
                                           Wisconsin, Madison; Ebola (Kikwit) -
                                           L. Avena and Dr. A. Griffiths,
                                           Department      of   Virology     and
                                           Immunology, Texas Biomedical
                                           Research Institute; HSV-1/2 - H. Oh,
                                           F. Diaz and Prof. D. Knipe, Virology
                                           Program, Harvard Medical School;
                                           E. coli, L. fermentum, B. subtilis, S.
                                           cerevisiae ŌĆō Zymo Research
                                           Corporation).




                                11
Appendix B

Application Notes

DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó Lysis Tubes (Microbe) (Cat. No. R1103)

1. Collect sample directly into the DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó Lysis Tube
   (Microbe).
2. Directly proceed to Step 2 of the protocol (page 7) and bead beat in
   the DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó Lysis Tube (Microbe) according to provided
   recommendations.
3. Proceed with the remaining protocol as written.

DNA Viruses

For unbiased metagenomics analysis of viruses, incorporating a
Proteinase K digestion prior to bead beating is recommended.

1. Following Step 3 (page 8) add 5% (v/v) of Proteinase K (Cat. No.
   D3001-2-5) to the lysate within the ZR BashingBeadŌäó Lysis Tubes
   (0.1 & 0.5 mm) and incubate for 30 minutes at 55╦ÜC.
2. Proceed to Step 4 (page 8) and continue with the remaining protocol
   as written.

Cheese and Protein Rich Biofluids (e.g. Milk, Sputum, Saliva, Spinal
Fluid, Blood, and Serum)

1. Add Ōēż 0.4 g of cheese or Ōēż 200 ┬Ąl of biofluid to the ZR BashingBeadŌäó
   Lysis Tubes (0.1 & 0.5 mm). Add 750 ┬Ąl of ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Lysis
   Solution.
2. Add 20 ┬Ąl of Proteinase K (20 ┬Ąg/┬Ąl) (cat. no. D3001-2-5) to the
   ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Lysis Tubes (0.1 & 0.5 mm) and incubate for 30
   minutes at 55╦ÜC.
3. Continue to Step 2 (page 7) and proceed with the protocol as written.

Plant Tissue (Leaves and other plant material)

Plant tissues such as leaves and roots contain DNA sources within the
host tissue that can overwhelm 16S rRNA gene targeted sequencing (from
both mitochondria & chloroplast). Microbes must be removed from the
plant surface to exclude host tissue from the bead beating process.




                                   12
(A) Plant tissue ŌĆō Centrifugation of cells
 1. Suspend plant tissue in isotonic solution (e.g. PBS) and gently
     sonicate or vortex briefly.
 2. Remove plant tissue from solution and centrifuge at 15,000 x g for 10
     minutes to pellet the cells.
 3. Without disturbing the pellet, slowly decant or pipette out the
     supernatant, leaving behind 100 ŌĆō 300 ┬Ąl of pellet.
 4. Add ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Lysis Solution to the cells to a final volume
     of 1 ml and mix to resuspend. Transfer the mixture to the ZR
     BashingBeadŌäó Lysis Tubes (0.1 & 0.5 mm) and proceed to Step
     2 (page 6).

(B) Plant tissue ŌĆō Filtration of cells
 1. Place plant tissue in a submerging volume of PBS inside of a conical
     tube and gently sonicate or vortex briefly. Remove plant tissue from
     liquid volume.
 2. Filter liquid using a 0.22 ┬Ąm filter (not provided).
 3. Cut the filter and place directly into the ZR BashingBeadŌäó Lysis
     Tubes (0.1 & 0.5 mm) and proceed to Step 1 (page 7).

(C) Plant root ŌĆō Lysis of surface microbes
 1. Cut root into small pieces and place directly into ZR BashingBeadŌäó
     Lysis Tubes (0.1 & 0.5 mm) with 750 ┬Ąl of ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Lysis
     Buffer.
 2. Lysis should be performed with a lower speed bead beating device
     (e.g. vortex adapter for 20 minutes) to avoid the host tissue
     contamination.
 3. Continue to Step 4 (page 8) and proceed with the remaining protocol
     as written.

Water/Air Samples

1. Filter samples using desired filter (not provided) prior to Step 1 (page
   7).
2. Cut the filter into small pieces and place them inside the ZR
   BashingBeadŌäó Lysis Tubes (0.1 & 0.5 mm) and add 750 ┬Ąl of
   ZymoBIOMICS Lysis Solution.
3. Continue to Step 2 (page 7) and proceed with the remaining protocol
   as written.




                                    13
Lytic Enzymes

Lytic enzymes, such as Lysozyme, Lysostaphin, MetaPolyzyme, etc. can
be used with this kit using the following:

(A) Enzymatic lysis followed by bead beating:
 1.   Perform enzymatic digestion under manufacturerŌĆÖs recommended conditions
      (temperature/time/concentration).

      Note: If sample is stored in DNA/RNA Shield, perform the following:

      a.   Centrifuge sample at Ōēź 10,000 x g for 1 minute.
      b.   Transfer supernatant to a ZR BashingBead Lysis Tube (0.1 & 0.5 mm), to be
           used in Step 2, below.
      c.   Re-suspend pellet in a buffer suitable for enzymatic treatment (ex. PBS or other
           isotonic solution).

 2.   Transfer the digestion mixture to a ZR BashingBeadŌäó Lysis Tube (0.1 &
      0.5 mm).
 3.   Add 750 ┬Ąl ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Lysis Solution.

      Note: For samples in DNA/RNA Shield, raise to a final volume of 1 ml with DNA/RNA
      Shield.

 4.   Proceed to Step 2 (page 7) and continue with the remaining protocol as
      written.

(B) Enzymatic lysis only (no bead beating):
 1.   Perform enzymatic digestion under manufacturerŌĆÖs recommended conditions
      (temperature/time/concentration).

      Note: If sample is stored in DNA/RNA Shield, perform the following:

      a.   Centrifuge sample at Ōēź 10,000 x g for 1 minute.
      b.   Transfer supernatant to a clean microcentrifuge tube, to be used in Step 2.
      c.   Re-suspend pellet in a buffer suitable for enzymatic treatment (ex. PBS or other
           isotonic solution).

 2.   Raise the volume of sample to 400 ┬Ąl with ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Lysis Solution.
 3.   Continue to Step 5 (page 8) and proceed with the remaining proceed as
      written.




                                            14
Hair, Feather, and Nail Samples:

1. To Ōēż 25 mg sample, add 90 ┬Ąl Water, 90 ┬Ąl Solid Tissue Buffer (Blue)
   (Cat. No. D4068-2-6), 10 ┬Ąl 1M DTT, and 10 ┬Ąl Proteinase K (Cat.
   No. D3001-2-5) in a microcentrifuge tube.
2. Mix thoroughly or vortex 10-15 seconds and then incubate the tube at
   55┬║C overnight.
3. Transfer lysate to a ZR BashingBeadŌäó Lysis Tube (0.1 & 0.5 mm)
   and then add 750 ┬Ąl ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Lysis Solution.
4. Continue to Step 2 (page 7) and proceed with the remaining protocol
   as written.

Tissue and Insect Samples

Tissue and Insect samples can be processed three different ways,
depending on the sample type and the equipment available. The
recommendations are listed next to the options below:

(A) Proteinase K - Tissue
 1.   Add up to 15 mg of tissue to a 1.5 ml microcentrifuge tube, then add a
      solution of 95 ┬Ąl water, 95 ┬Ąl Solid Tissue Buffer (Blue) (Cat. No. D4068-2-
      6) and 10 ┬Ąl Proteinase K (Cat. No. D3001-2-5). Incubate for at least 1 hour
      at 55┬░ C or until tissue clarifies (samples can be incubated overnight without
      affecting DNA quality).
 2.   Transfer digestion to a ZR BashingBeadŌäó Lysis Tube (0.1 & 0.5 mm) and
      add 750 ┬Ąl of ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Lysis Solution.
 3.   Proceed to Step 2 (page 7) and continue with the protocol as written.

(B) Bead beating - Tissue and Insect
 1.   Add up to 15 mg of tissue/insect sample in a ZR BashingBeadŌäó Lysis Tube
      (2.0 mm) (Cat. No. S6003-50) with 750 ┬Ąl of ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Lysis
      Solution.
 2.   Secure in a bead beater fitted with a 2 ml tube holder assembly and process
      at maximum speed for Ōēź 5 minutes.

      Note: Processing time will vary based on sample input and bead beater. Times
      may be as little as 5 minutes when using high-speed cell disrupters (FastPrep┬« -
      24) or as long as 20 minutes when using lower speeds (e.g., Vortex Genie┬«).

 3.   Transfer the entire lysate to the ZR BashingBeadŌäó Lysis Tube (0.1 & 0.5
      mm), proceed to Step 2 (page 7), and continue with protocol as written.

(C) Mortar & Pestle - Tissue and Insect
 1. Homogenize up to 15 mg tissue/insect sample with a mortar and pestle while
    submersed in liquid nitrogen.
 2. Transfer the entire sample into the ZR BashingBeadŌäó Lysis Tube (0.1 &
    0.5 mm) and add 750 ┬Ąl of ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Lysis Solution.
 3. Proceed to Step 2 (page 7) and continue with the protocol as written.

                                           15
Samples Collected with Swabs

(A) Directly process swab
 1.   Directly break swab at breakpoint or cut the swab into a ZR BashingBead
      Lysis Tube (0.1 & 0.5 mm).
 2.   Proceed to Step 1 (page 6) and continue with the protocol as written.

(B) Indirectly process swab
 1.   Vortex the swab in the ZR BashingBeadŌäó Lysis Tube (0.1 & 0.5 mm) with
      750 ┬Ąl of ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Lysis Solution for 30 seconds to transfer the
      microbes into solution.
 2.   Remove the swab and proceed to bead beating in Step 2 (page 7).

                                               Figure 6. Phylum composition of a
                                               simulated microbial community when
                                               bead beating was performed with and
                                               without the presence of a Puritan
                                               HydraFlock┬« sterile flocked collection
                                               device placed in a ZR BashingBead
                                               Lysis Tube and processed at
                                               maximum speed (6.5 m/s) for 5
                                               minutes. The extracted DNA was then
                                               subjected to microbial composition
                                               profiling via 16S rRNA gene targeted
                                               sequencing.       Experiment       was
                                               performed in technical duplicates.




Bacterial Endospore Lysis

ZymoBIOMICS DNA Kit is capable of effectively lysing bacterial
endospores, and also achieves higher yield when compared to
competition.


                                               Figure 7. DNA Extractions were
                                               performed using the ZymoBIOMICS┬«
                                               DNA Kit and DNeasy PowerSoil with 6
                                               x 108 B. subtilis CFU. DNeasy
                                               PowerSoil recovered 0.62 ng/┬Ąl DNA,
                                               while the ZymoBIOMICS┬« DNA Kit was
                                               capable of recovering 9.67 ng/┬Ąl in a
                                               50 ┬Ąl elution volume. Extractions were
                                               performed in triplicate and quantified
                                               via Qubit.




                                     16
Urine

(A) Pelleting cells from fresh/frozen urine
 1.   Pellet the bacterial cells by centrifuging the urine at 15,000 x g for 10 minutes.
 2.   Without disturbing the pellet, slowly decant or pipette out the supernatant,
      leaving behind 100 ŌĆō 400 ┬Ąl of pellet.
 3.   Add ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Lysis Solution to a final volume of 800 ┬Ąl and then
      transfer the mixture to a ZR BashingBeadŌäó Lysis Tube (0.1 & 0.5 mm).
      Proceed to Step 2 (page 7) and continue with the protocol as written.

(B) Pelleting cells from stabilized urine
 1.   Add 70 ┬Ąl Urine Conditioning Buffer (Cat. No. D3061-1-140) for every 1 ml
      of urine and mix well by vortexing.

      Note: Urine stabilized by the Urine Conditioning Buffer can be stored for up to 1 month
      at ambient temperature. When samples are ready to be processed, mix well by
      vortexing, and proceed to Step 2.

 2.   Centrifuge at 3,000 x g for 15 minutes.
 3.   Without disturbing the pellet, slowly decant or pipette out the supernatant,
      leaving behind 100 ŌĆō 400 ┬Ąl of pellet.
 4.   Add ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Lysis Solution to a final volume of 800 ┬Ąl and then
      transfer the mixture to a ZR BashingBeadŌäó Lysis Tube (0.1 & 0.5 mm).
      Proceed to Step 2 (page 7) and continue with the protocol as written.




 Figure 8. Phylum composition of urine preserved in Urine Conditioning BufferŌäó (UCBŌäó), which
 preserves the microbial composition of urine with simulated stool contamination for a month at room
 temperature. Urine with UCBŌäó added (Zymo Research, D3061-1-160) was stored at room
 temperature and analyzed over a month period. At the indicated time points (0 Days, 2 weeks, and 1
 month), DNA was extracted using the ZymoBIOMICSŌäó DNA Kit. The extracted DNA was then
 subjected to microbial composition profiling via 16S rRNA gene targeted sequencing. Experiment was
 performed in technical duplicates.




                                                 17
Appendix C

Standardize Sample Preparation with ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Microbial
Community Standards

The ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Microbial Community Standard (Cat. No. D6300)
is a mock microbial community of defined and well characterized
composition making it the perfect control for all microbiome profiling and
metagenomics analyses.

It is ideal for assessing bias of DNA extraction methods since it contains
three easy-to-lyse Gram-negative bacteria (e.g. Escherichia coli), five
tough-to-lyse Gram-positive bacteria (e.g. Listeria monocytogenes), and
two tough-to-lyse yeasts (e.g. Saccharomyces cerevisiae).

Bead Beating Device Calibration Protocol:
Zymo Research suggests calibrating bead beating devices with the
ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Microbial Community Standard in order to ensure bias
free microbial extraction. For lysis on the Vortex Genie’āó, we suggest a
time course ranging from 10-45 minutes with the vortex at maximum
speed. For high-speed cell disruptors such as the MP FastPrep ’āó-24 we
suggest a time course at maximum speed with a range of 3-10 minutes.
The resulting DNA should be evaluated by quantifying DNA yield and
changes in microbial profile at each time point. The bead beating time that
yields a profile that closely matches the theoretical composition should
become standard operating procedure for the bead beating device.

ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Microbial Community DNA Standard (Cat. No.
D6305) is a mixture of genomic DNA extracted from pure cultures of eight
bacterial and two fungal strains. Genomic DNA from each culture was
quantified before mixing. The ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Microbial Community
Standard allows for assessment of bias from library preparation,
sequencing, and bioinformatics analysis.

It serves perfectly as a microbial standard for benchmarking the
performance of microbiomics or metagenomics analyses, including those
provided by a 3rd party.




                                    18
Accurate Composition for Reliable Use to Evaluate Shotgun
              and 16S rRNA Sequencing

gDNA by Shotgun Sequencing                              16S Counts by 16S Sequencing




Figure 9. Characterization of the microbial composition of the two ZymoBIOMICS Ōäó standards with
shotgun metagenomic sequencing (left panel) and 16S rRNA gene targeted sequencing (right panel).
The measured composition of the two standards agrees with the theoretical/designed composition.
ŌĆ£DNA StandardŌĆØ represents ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Microbial Community DNA Standard (DNA version) and
ŌĆ£Microbial StandardŌĆØ represents ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Microbial Community Standard (cellular version).
Genomic DNA composition by shotgun sequencing was calculated based on counting the amounts
of raw reads mapped to each genome. 16S composition by 16S rRNA gene targeted sequencing
was calculated based on counting the amount of 16S raw reads mapped to each genome.




                                               19
 A) Use ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Microbial Standards for assessing GC-Bias in
    Shotgun Metagenomics




 B) Perfect for tracking PCR Chimera in 16S rRNA Gene Sequencing




Figure 10
A) Library preparation for shotgun metagenomic sequencing was performed in two different ways: one
    by supplier I and one by an in-house method. Shotgun sequencing was performed on Illumina┬«
    MiSeqŌäó with paired-end sequencing (2 x 150 bp). Raw reads were mapped to the 10 microbial
    genomes to evaluate the potential effect of GC content on sequencing coverage. Normalized
    coverage was calculated by normalization by the average sequencing coverage of each genome.
B) PCR chimera increases with PCR cycle number in the library preparation process of 16S rRNA gene
    targeted sequencing. 20 ng ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Microbial Community Standard was used a template.
    The PCR reaction was performed with ZymoBIOMICSŌäó PCR Premix and with primers that target V3-
    V4 region of 16S rRNA gene. Chimera rate in percentage was determined with Uchime and using the
    16S rRNA gene of the 8 bacterial strains in the standard as reference PCR.




                                                20
Appendix D
Optimized Lysis Protocols for Bead-Beating

The following conditions with different mechanical lysis machines were validated
with minimum bias using the ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Microbial Community Standard.




                                      21
Appendix E

Heat Sealing ZymoBIOMICSŌäó BashingBeadŌäó Lysis Racks

1. Remove all strip caps and use a Kimwipe to wipe away any residual
   beads found on the tops of the tubes.
2. Transfer samples into individual lysis rack tubes according to the
   sample input guide found in Step 1 of the main protocol (Page 7).
3. Cover the top of the lysis rack tubes with a Kimwipe and press down
   gently to remove any residual liquid.1
4. Place the lysis rack on the sealing device stage.
5. Center a sealing foil on top of the lysis rack, such that all tubes are
   covered by the foil with a slight overhang along each edge.
6. Set heat sealing device to 180┬░C and allow the device adequate time
   to reach the target temperature.
7. Press the sealer down onto the foil for 4 seconds to seal the rack.2
Note: At no point should a roller (or similar) be used to press down the foil, as it
can damage the bond between the sealing foil and lysis rack, causing leakage.

8. Allow the sealed lysis rack to cool to room temperature before loading
   onto a mechanical lysis device.
Note: Placing a rubber or silicone mat between the sealing foil and mounting clamp
is recommended to protect the sealing foil from becoming worn or damaged by the
clamp during mechanical lysis.

9. Proceed with Step 3 of the main protocol (Page 8).

For best results, it is recommended to use a validated heat sealing
device, such as the Vitl Variable Temperature Sealer (VTS) (V902001),
found here: https://vitlproducts.com/products/variable-temperature-
sealer.




1
    Avoid leaving liquid on the tops of the tubes. Residual liquid may negatively affect subsequent heat sealing.
2
    If different sealing foils or devices are used, heat sealing parameters may require user optimization.




                                                          22
Troubleshooting
For Technical Assistance, please contact 1-888-882-9682 or E-mail
tech@zymoresearch.com.

 Problem          Possible Causes and Suggested Solutions

 Background      ŌĆó Clean workspace, centrifuge, and pipettes with 10%
 Contamination     bleach to routinely to avoid contamination.

                 ŌĆó Use of kit in exposed environment without proper
                   filtration. Check pipettes, pipette tips, microcentrifuge
                   tubes, workspace, etc. for contamination.

                 ŌĆó Make sure bags of columns and buffer bottles are
                   properly sealed for storage. Use of these outside a clean
                   room or hood can result in contamination.


 Low DNA Yield    Lysis Methods

                 ŌĆó Refer to Appendix D for validated bead beating devices
                   and parameters.
                 ŌĆó Bead beating devices that oscillate in a single dimension
                   (only vertically or only horizontally) have been observed
                   to inefficiently lyse very recalcitrant species. Devices that
                   oscillate three-dimensionally or in a figure-8 motion often
                   lyse microbes efficiently.

                  Incomplete Debris Removal

                 ŌĆó For high density samples, ensure lysate is centrifuged
                   properly to pellet insoluble debris following bead beating.
                   Ensure that none of the debris is transferred to the Zymo-
                   SpinŌäó III-F Filter in the next step.

                  Input

                 ŌĆó If the lysate does not pass through the column or is
                   extremely viscous, use less input material. Too much
                   sample input can cause cellular debris to overload the
                   column and insufficient flow.

                 ŌĆó Consult the Sample Input Table on Page 7 for
                   information on your particular input limit based on
                   sample.




                                    23
Low DNA Yield   Binding Step
(cont.)
                ŌĆó Ensure that the ZymoBIOMICSŌäó DNA Binding Buffer
                  is completely mixed with lysate before loading onto the
                  column. Improperly mixed samples can lead to poor
                  DNA recovery.

                Elution Procedure

                ŌĆó Ensure the ZymoBIOMICSŌäó DNase/RNase Free
                  Water hydrates the matrix for at least 1 minute before
                  centrifugation.

                ŌĆó To increase yields, heat the ZymoBIOMICSŌäó
                  DNase/RNase Free Water to 60┬║C before use.
                  Additionally, users can reload the eluate onto the column
                  matrix, incubate at room temperature for 3 minutes, and
                  centrifuge again to increase yield without further dilution.




                                   24
Ordering Information
Product Description                                           Catalog No.   Size


ZymoBIOMICSŌäó DNA Microprep Kit                                D4301         50 Preps.



ZymoBIOMICSŌäó DNA Microprep Kit (Lysis Matrix Not Included)    D4305         50 Preps.



ZymoBIOMICSŌäó DNA Miniprep Kit                                 D4300T        5 Preps.



ZymoBIOMICSŌäó DNA Miniprep Kit                                 D4300         50 Preps.



ZymoBIOMICSŌäó DNA Miniprep Kit (Lysis Matrix Not Included)     D4304         50 Preps.


ZymoBIOMICSŌäó-96 DNA Kit (Includes BashingBeadŌäó Lysis
                                                              D4303         2 x 96 Preps.
Rack)


ZymoBIOMICSŌäó-96 DNA Kit (Includes BashingBeadŌäó Lysis
                                                              D4309         2 x 96 Preps.
Tubes)


ZymoBIOMICSŌäó-96 DNA Kit (Lysis Matrix Not Included)           D4307         2 x 96 Preps.


ZymoBIOMICSŌäó-96 Magbead DNA Kit (Includes BashingBeadŌäó
                                                              D4302         2 x 96 Preps.
Lysis Rack)


ZymoBIOMICSŌäó-96 Magbead DNA Kit (Includes BashingBeadŌäó
                                                              D4308         2 x 96 Preps.
Lysis Tubes)


ZymoBIOMICSŌäó-96 Magbead DNA Kit (Lysis Matrix Not Included)   D4306         2 x 96 Preps.




                                            25
Individual Kit Components                             Catalog No.   Amount

ZymoBIOMICSŌäó MagBinding Buffer                        D4302-2-250   250 ml

ZymoBIOMICSŌäó MagWash 1                                D4302-3-100   100 ml

ZymoBIOMICSŌäó MagWash 2                                D4302-4-200   200 ml

ZymoBIOMICSŌäó DNase/RNase Free Water                   D4302-5-50    50 ml

ZymoBIOMICSŌäó MagBinding Beads                         D4302-6-12    12 ml

ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Lysis Solution                           D4300-1-150   150 ml

ZR BashingBeadŌäó Lysis Tubes (0.1 & 0.5 mm)            S6012-50      50 Tubes

ZymoBIOMICSŌäó BashingBeadŌäó Lysis Rack (0.1 & 0.5 mm)   S6002-96-7    1 x 96

OneStep-96Ōäó PCR Inhibitor Removal Kit                 D6035         2 x 96 Preps.




Sample Collection                                     Catalog No.   Amount

DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó - Lysis Tube (Microbe)                R1103         50 Pack

DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó ŌĆō Fecal Collection Tube               R1101         10 Pack

                                                      R1106         10 Pack
DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó ŌĆō Swab and Collection Tube
                                                      R1107         50 Pack
                                                      R1100-50      50 ml
DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó
                                                      R1100-250     250 ml




                                             26
Explore Other Microbiome Products
Ō£ō   To collect and transport samples at ambient temperatures:

                      DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó and Collection Devices
                                                              For sample lysis and stabilization of
                            1X Reagent #R1100
                                                                           DNA/RNA
                                                            Reagent concentrate (2X) for use with
                          2X Concentrate #R1200
                                                                      liquids at 1:1 ratio
                                                              15 mL container (prefilled with 9 mL
                        Fecal Collection Tube #R1101       DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó). Direct collection of
                                                                    up to 1g or 1 mL stool
                                                            12 x 80 mm screwcap container filled
                      Collection Tube w/ Swab #R1106       with 1 mL DNA/RNA ShieldŌäó and sterile
                                                                 swab for specimen collection




Ō£ō   Streamlined workflows with comprehensive bioinformatics analysis and publication-
    ready plots and figures:

                      ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Services

                       Targeted Sequencing Service 16S #Q2001              With DNA Extraction

                       Targeted Sequencing Service 16S #Q2012            Without DNA Extraction

                       Targeted Sequencing Service ITS #Q2003              With DNA Extraction

                       Targeted Sequencing Service ITS #Q2003            Without DNA Extraction




Ō£ō   Microbial standards and references for profiling quality control, benchmarking, positive
    controls, and to assess performance of entire microbiomic/metagenomic workflows:

                      ZymoBIOMICSŌäó Standards and Reference Materials

                          Microbial Community Standard            Contains 8 bacteria and 2 yeasts
                                     #D6300                      for QC and method optimization

                       Microbial Community DNA Standard         Contains 8 bacteria and 2 yeasts
                                   #D6305                      DNA for bioinformatics optimization

                                                                 Contains 21 different human gut
                        Gut Microbiome Standard #D6331
                                                                strains for method benchmarking
                                                                    Contains real human fecal
                         Fecal Reference with TruMatrixŌäó
                                                                  material for benchmarking and
                              Technology #D6323
                                                                  improved data reproducibility




                                             27
Notes




        28
 100% satisfaction guarantee on all Zymo Research products,
                    or your money back.
 Zymo Research is committed to simplifying your research with quality products
 and services. If you are dissatisfied with this product for any reason, please call
                                 1(888) 882-9682.




Integrity of kit components is guaranteed for up to one year from date of purchase.
Reagents are routinely tested on a lot-to-lot basis to ensure they provide the highest performance and reliability.

This product is for research use only and should only be used by trained professionals. It is not for use in
diagnostic procedures. Some reagents included with this kit are irritants. Wear protective gloves and eye
protection. Follow the safety guidelines and rules enacted by your research institution or facility.

Ōäó Trademarks of Zymo Research Corporation, ┬« Registered Trademarks of Zymo Research Corporation
Other trademarks: Vortex Genie┬« (Scientific Industries, Inc.), FastPrep┬« (MP Biomedicals), Precellys┬« (Bertin
Technologies, Inc.), Illumina┬« MiSeqŌäó, (Illumina Inc.), AcroMetrixŌäó, Qubit┬« (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.),
DNeasy┬« (Qiagen), Hydraflock┬« (Puritan Medical Products), Bead Ruptor┬« (Omni International)


                                                        29
